MPD Music Spy (beta)
====================

Tool to synchronize artists of a MPD database with [Muspy](https://muspy.com).


Details
-------

An advantage of music players in the cloud like Spotify is that you can easily
know when an artist you are following releases a new album. If you do not use
this sort of music players, you can easily follow the releases with
[Muspy](https://muspy.com).

Problem: you do not want to add manually all the artists of your library.

MPD Music Spy is here to solve that for MPD, and add in your MuSpy account all
the artists listed in your MPD database.


Dependencies
------------
  * python 3.4 (it certainly works with prior versions, just not tested)
  * python-mpd2
  * python-musicbrainzngs
  * python-requests
  * python-urllib3


Configuration
-------------

Copy the default configuration file `config.py.default` as `config.py`.
<b>Please do not modify or remove `config.py.default` if you cloned this
repository.  Always do your modifications in config.py.</b> Then modify
`config.py` for your setup (documentation is inside).


Usage
-----

Just run: `python run.py`.

The synchronisation could be long the first time, as it uses MusicBrainz to get
the artists id. A double check is done when querying the id, by using the
albums in the MPD database, to be almost sure to match the good artist, but it
makes the synchronisation a bit longer.

For the next synchronisations, it uses the `artists.json` file to know which
artists were added on MuSpy and which were not.

Before every synchronisations, it also fetch all artists of the MuSpy account
to update the uploaded state locally. This pre-synchronisation permits to
get the missing MusicBrainz ids from the artists already added on MuSpy, which
is a lot quicker than querying it directly to MusicBrainz.

For the moment, MPD Music Spy only add new artists, it does not remove on MuSpy
the ones deleted in MPD.


Ignore artists
--------------

If you do not want to synchronize a or multiple specific artist(s) with MuSpy,
you can add the names in the file `ignore_list` at the project root.

It is one name per line, and put the exact same name as it is saved in mpd (but
it is not case sensitive) or the ignore rule could not work as expected.

Example: `ignore_list`
```
rage against the machine
queen
```


License
-------

Tool under the BSD license. Do not hesitate to report bugs, ask me some
questions or do some pull request if you want to !
